# graphs intro

- edges are the lines
- verticies are the dots
- verticies are adjecent if they are conected by a edge
- adjecency list is a table with a vertex then what its adject too
- adjecency matrix looks just like a bunch of numbers one mean adjectent and 0 meaning not.
- degree is number of edges on a vertex.
- a degree sequince is a list of the degrees on the vertexs in a "non-increasing order" .
- a graph is connected when their is a path betwee all of the vertices
- a cycle is when you can start at a verticy and come back to it (idk how long a cycle has to be or any specifics about it). this is not adressed in the textbook.
- a tree is when there is no cycles but the graph is connected.
- a graph is just a set of verticies and edges and how we draw it is up to us mostly.
- graphs that arnt equal but just have a verticy in a difrent place are called isomorphism. for this we use the $a  \cong  b$
- some graphs have no lables which means we are reffering to all isomorphisms.
- if one graph could be part of another it is called a subgraph.
- for an induced subgraph every vertex that was carried over keep all of the edges that connected it to other verties as long as thoes verticies were carried over as well.
- in a multiset a single element can be contained multiplue times.
- a graph is compleate if every pair of verticies is connected by an edge.
- compleate graphs are the same for every number of vericties each verticy has a degree of n(n-1)/2
- so if were a given a degree sequince we can add them all up and /2 to get the number of edeges?
- bipartite if there can be 2 sets of verticys with no adjencys between the 2 sets.
