## question 3

Using the digits 2 through 9, find the number of different 3-digit numbers such that:
1. Digits can be used more than once.
2. Digits cannot be repeated, but can come in any order.
3. Digits cannot be repeated and must be written in increasing order.


For the first part we just have to find all possibility ignoring repeats so we can just multiply $8*8*8 = 8^3 = 512$

the second part is a little harder but still relatively simple going from left to right we have one less option each time because we cant repeat any number previously used. We dont know which number is excluded but it doesnt matter because we are just counting possibility. This looks like $8 * 7 * 6 = 336$ and also follows the formula $\frac{n!}{(n-k)!}$ where n is the about of possible options and k is the length of the set. written on this looks like $\frac{8*7*6*5*4*3*2*1}{5*4*3*2*1} = 336$ which just cancels out the numbers past 6 that we dont need.

for the third part we need to find out how many set their are with the numbers written in increasing order. each set of any 3 non repeated number can be written in increasing order and can only be written in increasing order in one way. however, any set of 3 numbers is counted multiple times in our previous answer so we need to remove any duplicates of the same 3 numbers. each number has k! orders in our case 3! or 6 so we just need to divide the answer we got before by 6 to make sure no 3 numbers in any order are represented twice $336/6 = 56$. if we do this and the previous step in one equation it uses this formula $\frac{n!}{(n-k)! * k!}$ and with the numbers filled in looks like this$\frac{8*7*6*5*4*3*2*1}{(5*4*3*2*1)*6} = 56$